## ASYOUWERE · · *

U. S. ARMY GENERAL HOSPITAL NO. 24

Vol. 1. No. 2.

PARKVIEW STATION, PITTSBURGH, PA., SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1919.

## 'ASYOUWERE' IS WELL LAUNCHED ON BUSINESS CAREER

PUBLIC OFFICIALS RENDER VALUABLE ASSISTANCE

The weather last Saturday was very bad, but that did not dampen our spirits to go out and make the debut °f ASYOUWERE' a 100 per cent success. The Motor Corps Girls under the able leadership of Major Boschert were here early in morning with a train of automobiles ready to take everyone to the city to launch the first issue of 'ASYOUWERE.' A flying squadron of overseas men was ready on the job and when they tore loose in the city, there were some sights. The papers sold out in a very short time. Chateau-Thierry had nothing on this job.

party reached the city it assembled in front of the City-County Building where it was met by many ol the city and county officials. Among the party from the hospital were Col. Lieut, W. L. Muson, assistant adjutant and advisor; Lieut. Montgomery J. Shroyer, chaplain; Lieut. Joseph M. Marcus, quartermaster; Mr. T. J. Pentland, Jr., Red Cross representative; Sergt. I. A. Melnick, editor'; Private Frank Drew, Staff artoonist and the overseas squadron. This assembly was brightened up by the presence of the charming motor corps girls. Among the public officials present were Sheriff Wm. S. Haddock, Major Wm. H. Davis, Mr. Charles M. Hubbard, city treasurer; Hon. John S. Herron, president of city r council; Mi*. George Gottschall, secretary to the mayor, and Mr. John Dillon, assistant chief deputy. Through the courtesy of these men work at the city and county building ceased and their offices were thrown open to Colonel Kremers and his staff. H.. commanding

When the

The first copy of the paper was sold to Sheriff Haddock by Little Miss Lillian Dawson, the original 'Liberty Bond Baby,' daughter of Mr. George W. Dawson, of the Pittsburgh Leader. Mr. Dawson had very kindly arranged to have present on that occasion a troupe of actors and actresses from the Davis theater, but owing to the inclement weather they could not perform. Thanks to the efforts of Mr. Dawson, the affair was successfully carried out and 'ASYOUWERE' was well launched upon a career of happy existence.

## TRANSFER OF PATIENTS FOR DISCHARGE

Twenty-one patients were transferred on February 17 to Camp Sherman. 0., and eleven to Camp Dix, N. J. These men were all in tip-top physical condition and in the best of spirit. Sh! They will soon be home!

Five Cents a Copy

CAPTAIN J. 0. BROWN ADJUTANT

## Service Record of Our Adjutant

Captain J. O. Brown, S. C., entered the service July 14, 1899, serving as a private in the 30th Infantry, U. S. V. He participated in the Philippine Campaign, remaining in the Philippines from September, 1899 to February, 1901. On August 7, 1901 he enlisted as a private in the Medical Department, serving later with the Army of Cuban Pacification, 1906. Thereafter he was attached to the Port of Embarkation, Hoboken, N. J., and later was on duty at Camp Mills, N. J., as assistant to the camp surgeon. On August 29, 1918, Captain Brown was assigned to duty at this hospital as Adjutant. He was commissioned from the ranks as Captain, Sanitary Corps, June 8, 1918, Captain Brown is one of the most ener- getic workers at this post. It was a very common occurrence for him to be at his desk during the constructional period of this Hospital from seven o'clock in the morning until midnight.

The only condition under which we were able to get Captain Brown to sit for his picture was that the article accompanying same would be a mere statement of his service. The editor was strictly instructed to write no flourishing statements, not to tell that our Adjutant was the moving force that organized all the departments of the Hospital, that the foundational work in its construction was due to his untiring efforts, and that it was due to his activity that the work was completed in record time. The editor will obey instructions and make no mention of these facts.

## RECHNSTRUCTIHNAL EDUCATION BEGUN AT HOSPITAL

MAJOR MILNER'S

RESUME OF WORK

A well equipped hospital for wounded soldiers includes a department in which an effort is directed toward improving the physical condition of the disabled men and helping them to recover more rapidly by teaching them to do something that is both interesting and worth doing. If a man's injury is such that when his wound is healed he will not be able to use his hand or his arm or his foot or his leg as well as he could before he was injured, the right sort of exercise will generally help him to regain control of it to such an extent that his injury need not handicap him or prevent him from being just as useful as he ever was.

To be effective the exercise must be continued persistently. The kind of exercise that any one will perform most willingly is that which comes from doing some sort of work in which he is interested. This is what is called occupational therapy, which simply means work with a curative effect.

Then there is what is known as educational therapy. The man whose injury is such that will not effect the use of his limbs can get a lot of benefit and recover more rapidly if he will take up the study of some interesting subject. That will not only occupy his mind while he is in the hospital, but will be of use to him after he goes from here.

A department of this sort has been organized at this hospital and is being developed as rapidly as facilities for carrying on the work can be provided. Already there are classes in commercial work, such as typewriting, bookkeeping, arithmetic and other lines; a class learning to read and write English; one in drafting; in wood working and signpainting; one in radio and Morse telegraphy. Plans have been made for metal working, automobile repairing and other trades as soon as quarters are available for work of this sort. It is expected that in a few days the shops and schools will be located on the first floor of the building now occupied by headquarters, will give room for more classes than are in attendance now.

In addition to the shop work there will be occupations of various sorts for the men unable to leave the wards. Several aids are here and are making preparations for such work, so that every one interested will be provided for.

The primary purpose of the work in this department is curative, to help each man to reconstruct himself as

(Continued on page 2)

## MOVING PICTURES TO BE SHOWN REGULARLY

Through the efforts of Mr. G. W. Dawson of the Pittsburgh Leader, and Mr. A. G. Williams, financial secretary of the Moving Picture Machine Operators Union, Local No. 171, the personnel and patients of this hospital will enjoy the latest reels of the movie world every Saturday evening. Mr. Dawson made personal calls upon the managers of all the Pittsburgh moving picture exchanges and urged them to co-operate with him in bringing here the best in movies. In fact, no urging was necessary. One manager asserted, 'Anytime you want anything, come and get it.' This was practically the reply from them all.

Furthermore, Mr. Williams has obtained from his union the services of an experienced, licensed motion picture operator for every Saturday evening. This will insure absolute safety to the audience. His union will soon present, also, to the hospita l a moving picture machine of the best modern type. These men are greatly interested in the boys of the hospital who feel very thankful to them for their kindness.

The Charlie Chaplin picture shown last week was furnished on special request of 500 of our boys by the National Film Company. For the five weeks past all pictures exhibited were furnished by Universal. Saturday, February 22, William S. Hart will be the featuring number.

So far the Mutual, Paramount, Vitagraph, National and Universal have consented to show pictures here and the other film exchanges here are rapidly falling into line. ,

## DISCHARGE APPEALS MAY GO HIGHER

Cheer up, fellows! Even if your application for a discharge has been turned down by your immediate commanding officer, you still have a chance. Under a new ruling of the War Department the following procedure must be carried out. In case of disapproval applications for discharge must be forwarded to the next highest commanding officer who will examine your request for discharge without any reference to the previous disapproval. These instructions, adds the circular, must be strictly adhered to. Under the old ruling the immediate commanding officer had power to discharge a man whose services could be spared. He was the sole judge. So buck up, you fellows, who are inclined to be blue! Just because your application has been disapproved there is no cause for worry. There are more chances higher up. And then, oh, boy! won't it be a grand and glorious feelin'?'

## GUILTY PARTY DISCOVERED

During the past week the question most frequently heard was not 'When do we eat?' or 'When will I get my discharge?' The great question was, 'Who named the paper?' And this question Went unanswered all this time; even the editor didn't know. But somebody's tongue in a fit of ecstasy went loose and the secret leaked out. So, hark, ye rumor-bearers! This is one thing you missed. The guilty party is Lieutenant B. B. Brumbaugh.

Private Britten is giving lessons in Spiral Leggins. He does them so gracefully.

## PENNSYLVANIA HEROES TO BE DECORATED WITH DISTINGUISHED SERVICE CROSS

The U. S. Army Hospital at Parkview will have the unprecedented honor and privilege of decorating two of Pennsylvania's sons with the cross of the Distinguished Service Order for extraordinary valor displayed in action on the Western front. The recipients of these medals are Captain Amo S. McClellan, 47th Infantry for special heroism in action at Sergy, France, August 1, 1918, and First Lieutenant John H. Michener, Air Service Pilot, for extraordinary valor in action near Varennes, France, October 4, 1918. Captain McClellan is a resident of Waynesburg, Pa., while Lieutenant Michener comes from Erie, Pa.

The ceremony will take place at Carnegie Museum Saturday morning at 10:30 A. M. Colonel E. D. Kremers will have charge of the ceremony, while Colonel John C. W. Brooks. United States army, will make the presentation address. A flag raising will also take place, the dedication address for which will be made by Congressman Julius Kahn of California. President A. A. Hammerschlag, of the Carnegie Institute of Technology, is the general chairman. Full military honors will be extended to the distinguished heroes and visitors on this noteworthy occasion.

## DISCHARGE APPLICATIONS RECEIVE SPEEDY ATTENTION

Applications for discharge are receiving such speedy attention as is compatible with the needs of the service and the desires of the men. However, all applications must go through the immediate commanding officer and not sent direct to the War Department. Occasionally letters are sent to Washington which serve only to delay action in the case concerned One of the men of the detachment sent his request for discharge to the Secretary of War and the same has been returned to this command.

It was Tony who did not believe in corresponding through the cold methods of military channels, so he dropped the following friendly note to his good old friend, Mr. Baker, the Secretary of War.

Sir Secretary of War.

I am implore you to take Karo my case.

I am an Italian of forty. But I feel more soldier then I am.

So-Sire-l have in Italy tow brothers and one littill sister, my brothers they serve in the army in Italy-l haven't the luck to receive news of them about 6 months.

My littill sister she is lonely I don't know with how she live.

I bilieve my brother they been kill or maybe wounded.

I lake you, if you can givev my dischiarck, or till I have an opportunity to bring back my littill sister, with me, in America if the War was goin long I never have heart to ask you such think. But I was ready on the job like lion-for the American love.

But in this case like I am now and the things goin on-l think oncle Sam not need me any more.

I will thank you with my heart.

'I shall have to study three years to be admitted to the bar,' said the young man with large spectacles. ''Taint worth it,' commented Uncle Bill Bottletop, after some thought. 'I'd rather go without the drink.'Washington Star.

## A HEART-TO-HEART TALK ON INSURANCE

Before you leave the service and return to civil life, your Government wishes fco tell you directly and simply a few things which it is most important for you to know.

Because of your service in the war, you can have permanently for yourself and your family the protection of United States Government Insurance I -thd strongest, safest, and most liberal insurance in the worldGovernment Insurance at Government rates. You can have this, but only »

You have answered your country's call and done the bidding of your Government. The Nation and the people are grateful for what you have done. Your Government, therefore, gives you the right to keep up your insurance with the United States Government after you leave the service. More than that, you can keep it up for the rest of your life.

## IF YOU HOLD ON TO YOUR PRESENT INSURANCE.

You can keep up your present insurance and change it without medical examination.

You can keep up your present insurance at substantially the same low rate you are paying now for five years after the end of the war and during this time, if you pay your premiums regularly, you can change this present insurance into a standard form of Government Insurance good for the rest of your life.

The new Government policies are now being prepared for you-ordinary life (insurance, twenty-payment life, endowment maturing at age of 62, and other usual forms of insurance.

You will be notified when these new policies are ready. They will be written by the United States Government Government Insurance at special Government rates for soldiers, sailors, and marines. Meantime, all you need to do is keep up your present insurance. After you leave the service, send your check or money order to pay for your premium every month to the Disbursing Clerk, Bureau of War Risk Insurance, Treasury Department, Washington, D, C., making same payable to the Treasurer of the United States. Give your first, middle, and last name, your full address, your Army serial number, and the number of your insurance certificate, if it is known to you.

REMEMBER, Uncle Sam is staying in the insurance business for you-· because of what you did for him.

For your sake-

For the sake of your future-

For the sake of those you love-

## RECONSTRUCTIONAL EDUCATION BEGUN AT HOSPITAL

(Continued from Page One)

rapidly and as completely as possible; but effort will also be made to help him fit himself, so far as possible in the time that he remains here, to undertake some definite task when he leaves the hospital. We want him to go forth into the world at least inspired with confidence in his ability to do his part in the work of the world.

The Medical Supply detail wishes that Capt. Brown would not wear rubber heels as he always sneaks in on them when they are trying to get a little sleep.

## BOTH PHONES

Bell 41-42 Court P. &amp; A. 449 Main

## ALBERT L BRAHM CO.

## Meats Poultry Produce Butter Eggs Cheese

315 Market St. Pittsburgh, Pa.

## WEARING OF UNIFORMS BY DISCHARGED SOLDIERS

Circular No. 43, lately issued by the War Department in regards to the wearing of uniforms after discharge, is herewith published for the guidance of those about to be' discharged from the service:

Present law authorizes a discharged officer or soldier to wear his uniform from the place of his discharge to his home, within three months of the date of his discharge from the service. Thereafter the officer may wear his uniform only upon occasions of ceremony.

The enlisted man may return his uniform within four months of the date of discharge; but can wear it only as stated above.

An act is now before Congress, which if passed, will authorize enlisted men to keep the uniform which they are permitted to wear home, and to wear that particular uniform, only, provided some distinctive mark or insignia, to be issued by the War Department, shall be worn.

It will thus be clearly seen that neither under existing or proposed law will a discharge soldier be permitted to wear uniforms made by civilian or other tailors. They may legally wear only the particular uniform which they have been permitted to retain.

Commanding officers of camps, posts and stations will give the widest publicity to this information, both among the soldiers of their command and the local press. No person will be permitted to solicit orders for, or deliver uniforms to soldiers about to be discharged. Persons or concerns persisting in selling uniforms to such soldiers?" after having warned not to do so, will not be permitted to do business on the reservation.

Many occasions have recently arisen when the uniform was used for purely trade purposes and was severely criticized in a statement issued by Headquarters Eastern Department, iat Governor's Island, New York.

'The uniform of the United States Army' says the statement, 'is a badge nf honor. It is painful to see it worn by discharged soldiers while soliciting book subscriptions, peddling street wares, or driving commercial vehicles.

'Such use of the uniform is neither seemly nor dignified, but there exists a wide spread impression that it is authorized by law and that soldiers and sailors are within their rights in wearing uniforms for a period of four months after discharge.

The impression has no foundation in fact. Neither Congress nor the War Department even contemplated that officers or enlisted men should v-ear their uniforms while engaged in civilian pursuits or for the purpose of facilitating or promoting the succors of any commercial undertaking.'

## OFFICERS' COLUMN

Lieut. Myers is acting as Detachment Commander during the illness of Captain Ducat.

Several of the officers were present at the dance Friday evening, February 14, at the K. of C. Building, Pittsburgh.

The question of officers receiving gifts has again been revived. Lieut. Warner has been seen driving a real 'Fierce Sparrow' complete with starter and stopper.

This is one issue of 'ASYOUWERE' that our Chaplain won't send home. If you don't believe it, look at the cartoons.

## ADDITIONS TO COMMISSIONED AND ENLISTED PERSONNEL

During the past week or so the hospital received many valuable additions to its commissioners and en listed personnel. Major Robert D. Milner, S. C., comes here direct from the Surgeon General's Office at Washington. He is chief of the educational staff and will have full charge of the Department of Reconstruction. Capt. Clement 0. Fogerty, M. C., with an envious record of overseas service, la added to the medical service, while Oapt. Beveridge H. Moore, M. C., of General Hospital No. 10, comes here to take charge of orthopaedic surgery. To the Neuropsychiatric Department is added Oapt. Leon M. Wilber who comes here from Camp Sheridan, Ala. Capt. Albert U. F. Clark of the Walter Reed General Hospital, Washington, has been assigned to the Department of Physio-Therapy, while First Lieut.. Williaf H. Baggett, Signal Corps, from Camp Meade, Md., will be instructor in wireless telegraphy in the Reconstruction Department. To the roster of Officers of the Quartermaster Corps here has been added Second Lieut. Harold L. Whitcomb, of New York City.

Among the new arrivals to the enlisted personnel are Hospital Sergeant Rollo Muller who has been assigned to the Registrar's Office; Sergeants Otto S. Nau and Frank E. Morris, both from General Hospital No. 30, Plattsburg Barracks and both qualified in psychological work. Sergeant J. E. Walters comes here from the Walter Reed Hospital as instructor in drafting.

## ENLISTED MEN OF MEDICAL DETACHMENT ARE PROMOTED

Hospital Sergeant Albert 0. Miller has just received from the Surgeon General's Office, Washington, his promotion to the grade of Master Hospital Sergeant. Sergeant Miller took special examinations for promotion to that grade last September in the Hawaiian Islands As the examinations are of a specially difficult nature, our new Master Hospital Sergeant should be specially congratulated upon his success in passing them

In addition, the following promotions are announced, in accordance with Hospital Order, No. 70:

## To Be Sergeant:

Corporal James W. Smith,

Corporal Daniel W. Buskirk.

Corporal Fred L. Whitaker.

Corporal Harold F. Brokaw.

Corporal William B.

## To Be

Vincent. Corporal:

Private First Class Harry J. Berkowitz.

Private First Class George W. Bloser.

Private First Class John McClain Private First Class Walter W. Pardee.

Private First Class Henry Twitch ell .

Private First Class Howard C. Sauer.

Prive+e Earl F. Smith.

To Be Private First Class

Private Gail AHowav.

Private John Alsanakas.l

Private James R. Hatherlee.

Private Porter Lenderman.

## Q.-M. Quimms

Why in the world do they call this place PARKVIEW?

A certain private who is very anxious for a discharge seems to make very frequent trips to East Liberty. And yet they say there's nothing in a name.

FOUND-A very tender missive beginning 'My dear Soldier Boy.' The owner can prove the ownership and obtain possession by divulging the answers to the very interesting questions contained therein.

Private 'Dad' Brengle posesses a class A pass but never goes anywhere. That's what we call a waste of gool material.

Some few days ago Corp. McGuire had an unfortunate encounter with a lighted cigarette butt. For a while he thought seriously of having a hole cut in the top of his truck so that he could drive standing up. We hope that by this time he has fully recovered.

We know a certain private who specializes in rich widows with a large income from apartment houses and such. We are not mentioning any names, but really Ed, you ought to let some of the rest of us in on some of the good things.

Whist! Sgt. Chesney sleeps between real, honest-to-gfoodness sheets!

Lieut. Marcus has resolutely refrained from shaving his upper lip for the last few days. When interviewed by our representative, he insisted that it was purely in the interest of science. It seems that he and Lieut. Bennett had a heated discussion as to which map would raise the largest crop in the shortest time. Our patience is almost exhausted waiting for any visible outgrowths or developments.

In addition to his duties as mimeograph operator, Pvt. Gleason has now been detailed as caretaker of the Medical Supply cat. We notice that the cat is better fed than the caretaker.

Sgt. Spinelli is still waiting for v? s class A pass.

Private Claude J. Martin. Private Herman M. Sheller. Private Clarence P. Tiell. Private Gustave C. Ziegler.

Private Henry J. Kelling.

At a meeting of the Co-operative Welfare Association, and the officers of the U. S. Army General Hospital, No. 24, Parkview Sta., Pittsburgh, Wednesday, February 13, plans were formulated by which the association could work in greater harmony with the hospital authorities in their welfare work among returned soldiers. Resolutions to that effect were offered by the association, and unanimously adopted. Lieut. Col. E. D. Kremers, Commanding Officer of the hospital, spoke on 'The Government Plan For Care of Wounded Soldiers,' Capt. Edwin F. Sibley on 'The Work of The Surgical Service,' Capt. E. D. Baker, on 'The Work of the Medical Service,' and Chaplain Montgomery J. Schroyer, 'The Programme of Morale Work.' Music was furnished by the Hospital Orchestra, and Corp. Boris Posner, tenor. A tour of inspection of the hospital and a dinner in the hospital mess hall completed the programme. The meeting was successful in every respect, and present indications point to a very interesting and useful program of activities.

Private Barney Rosenberg has been handed his discharge and has departed for the wilds of Philadelphia. He takes with him all the best wishes of the Detachment,

Priv. 'Mike' Michaels has returned from a few days at home. He reports that 'little old New York' is still doing business at the same old stand.

'Do you consider 13 an unlucky number?' asked Yorick Hamm. 'Well, I'd rather play to more people,' responded Hamlet Fatt. -Kansas City Journal.

&lt;B3SB&gt;

The Business Man's Department Store

## Office Stationery Office Furniture Printing &amp; Ruling

Private Exchange

Bell,

Service Eliminates

Grant 4460 P. &amp; A., Main 64? 642-644 Liberty Avenue PITTSBURGH, PA. Competition

u

## Your Credit's Good at r Pickering's

for the things that make Happy Homes-

Nuf Ced-

Tenth &amp; Penn

*GLYPH&lt;c=0,font=/CCSFNT+FreeSans&gt;»

*GLYPH&lt;c=0,font=/CCSFNT+FreeSans&gt;»

GLYPH&lt;c=0,font=/CCSFNT+FreeSans&gt;»

+»

+ »

GLYPH&lt;c=0,font=/CCSFNT+FreeSans&gt;»

## ASYOUWERE

Official Publication of U. S. Army General Hospital No. 24 Parkview Station, Pittsburgh, Pa.

## Published Every Saturday

Lieutenant-Colonel E. D. Kremers, Commanding Officer.

Lieut. William L. Munson Advisor Serg. I. A. Melnick Editor Pvt. Karl A. Sapp Business Mgr. Pvt. V. H. Swanick.. .Asst. Bus. Mgr. Private Frank Drew Cartoonist

## FEBRUARY THOUGHTS

February is a month of great men men great in public affairs, in literature and in science, men great in every walk of life. But the outstanding examples of this month are two great Americans whose influence has shaped the destiny of the nation more than any other two Americans since their times. This country gained and developed immensely by theD mode of living, by their principles of action, and by their standards of public policy.

At the end of the Revolutionary War the Continental Army impored its Commander-in-chief to except the position as King of the new country. But Washington disdained this idea and would not accept such a position at the hands of a military force. And, when at the expiration of his second term, he was offered a third term, he declined the offer and modestly retired to his estate as a plain, gentleman planter. We look in vain for such examples of simplicity and selfdenial in the history of any other country. When our first President died, there were no dramatic farewells, no thrilling partings. No European ruler ever lived or died as our first chief executive.

A half century later The Great Commoner rose in the public service His whole life was a struggle for principle and never did he falter or yield his convictions. His public career was a continuous fight for the right. Rising from his low station to the high office of the Presidency, doing what he did for this country Lincoln did more for America than any other man since his day. When, by his determination, Lincoln decided that this country should be a united nation and welded the states together, he laid the foundation for the present day idea of a league of nations. His services were thus for the benefit of all humanity.

Here are two Americans whom power never changed, whose heads did not turn when they reached the pinnacle of success. Here are two great Americans whom we can all emulate. That does not mean that we are all to be Washingtons or Lincolns. But we can all do what they did; Seize the opportunity when it comes and make the best of it.

## OUR FIRST ISSUE

It was with fear and trembling that we went into the newspaper business. Our first issue of 3000 copies sold out in short order. This issue we are daring for the 5000 mark and perhaps more. The reason for the success of the first issue was the fine support and co-operation given us by the people of Pittsburgh in preparing and printing 'ASYOUWERE.' The newspaper men were right with us to a man from start to finish. The Motor Corps Girls under the efficient

## Daddy of 'Em All

management of 'Major' Boschert came to the hospital at 9 a. m. and carried our soldier 'newsies' to the City Hall where city and county officials bought the first copies.

## THOUGHTS EMINATING FROM A PARCHED TONGUE

The fine spirit of friendliness and co-operation on every hand is greatly appreciated by 'ASYOUWERE.'

## WAR'S 'BIRDS OF PASSAGE'

## By Anita Hayes Kitchell.

(Dedicated to the Parkview 'Birds')

There's John, and Tom and 'Micky' There's Bill, and Ned and Pete, There's Harry, Ralph and Jimmy-' Birds' from head to soles of feet! These are true 'Birds of Passage,' Some wei'e wounded in their flight, As they soared for peace and freedom, And to set this whole world right! Oh, their plumage was not brilliant, But their pinions were so strong That they turned the tide of battle As through clouds they moved along And did each bird do his duty Over there where battles ragedWhen aloft he 'paged a jerry' As in clouds he camouflaged? Ah, if each bird told his storyWhat he did and tried to do; Hearts would thrill at birdmen's triumphsFor the world-for me-for you.

We'll sure be in a pocket when Wilson cuts the rum,

He's just 'bout got it finished, but the toughest time's to come,

And I was a-sittin' here a thinkin' concernen' me and you,

Of what's a goin' to happen, when the bill goes through.

Of course there's plenty cider, and paragoric too,

For a small pain in the back-either one of these will do,

There's only one Elixer that sure will do the trick.

But when it comes to wanten' a dose that has a kick,

Now when the town goes dry and that's what she's going to do,

Don't bother 'bout my comfort-but who'll look after you,

When your neck begins to itch and you want to change your collar, And you've money in your pocket and still can't spend a dollar?

So King Alcohol is doomed, and the notice .has been mailed.

That any one who breaks the law is certain to be jailed,

But the number of new excavations in almost every cellar,

Is noticed now by passersby, who may be drinken' fellers.

## Medical Woofs

The Sergeant Major's wife was explaining to the Editor the other day how some woman broke a platter on a man's head. To illustrate, she used a few sheets of paper and the sergeant major's head. Not heavy enough? No, but you ought to have seen how realistic the movement was!

FORCE OF HABlT-Private Gunn ate supper in a Pittsburgh restaurant last Saturday. When he finished his meal he picked up his dishes and started out. His uniform saved him from arrest. Watch your step, Gunn!

Sergeant Born wants to know whether this paper is going to be run by the Republican or Democratic Party. As far as the Sarj. is concerned it makes no difference as he is an out-and-out Red Bolshevik.

The Detachment men certainly enjoyed last Friday's dance at 'The Willows' and the dance and social given by the Eastern Star at East Liberty. The affair given by the Lutheran Church of Aspinwall was a huge success.

Mr. Pentland is in receipt of a Valentine saying that he has the most beautiful eyes SHE has ever seen.

All patients are urged to enroll in the Reconstruction School. It will fit you to take up your civilian occupation again and pursue them more successfully. Join now. Don't delay. Classes open also to detachment men.

## WOULD YOU REALLY KNOW

## IF YOU HAD THE FLU?

When your back is broke and your eyes are blurred,

And your shin bones knock and your tongue is furred,

And your tonsils squeak and your hair gets dry,

And you're doggone sure that you're going to die,

And you're skeered you won't and afraid you will,

Just drag to bed and have your chill, And pray the Lord to see you through,

For you've got the Flu, boy, you've got the Flu.

When your toes curl up and your belt goes flat,

And you're twice as mean as a Thomas cat,

And your life is a long and dismal curse

And your food all tastes like a hard boiled hearse;

And your lattice aches and your head's a-buss

And nothing is as it ever was, Here are my sad regrets to you -

You've got the Flu, boy, you've got the Flu.

What is it like, this Spanish Flu? Ask me, brother, for I've been through It is by Misery out of Despair,

It pulls your teeth and curls your hair ;

It thins your blood and breaks your bones,

And fills your craw with moans and groans,

And sometimes maybe you get well.

SOME CALL IT FLU-I CALL IT 'HELL.'

## HOW WE BEGAN BUSINESS

CITY AND COUNTY OFFICIALS GREETING FIRST ISSUE OF 'ASYOUWERE'

Sgt. Melnick, Editor; Pvt. Amperi, Soldier 'Newsie;' Pvt. Drew, Cartoonist, and the Little Misses Dawson.

THE SHERIFF WHEN HE WAS A SOLDIER

Sheriff Wm. S. Haddock Our First Customer

READY FOR A SALE

## CAPT. BAKER WRITES ON 'MEDICAL SERVICE'

My assignment for the second number of our paper is 'The aims and ambitions of the Medical Service' and if the article is to equal our aims and ambitions at will have to be 'some''' article. Not being used to assignments, I expect to ramble.

The desire of the Medical man in the Army is to give every sick or wounded person the very best that he has to give. As a true physician he wants to make the sick well and to relieve the suffering of the wounded and bring them back to health and usefulness, as well as prevent sickness.

From the army standpoint his functions are to prevent the unfit from coming into the service. To classify and designate the type of service foi those who, though not entirely fit might be used without loss to them selves or to the Government for some less strenuous branch of the service, such as clerical work, etc. For instance, a man who might break down because of flat feet or heart condition would lose for himself from the fact that he would be wasting both time and health. The Government, too, would lose because it would spend time and money to train him and would get him to the field of action where his breakdown would make him a lost unit in the active fighting and would add the burden of his care as a casual or bed patient to the debit side of the ledger'.

Now after a man has come into the service the medical man must make records so that they may be kept for comparison and for use in matters of insurance and such other items.

The new soldier beginning his training may possibly have come from a desk where he had done indoor work for the past several years. It may be that he has been a blacksmith or a trained athlete. The true medical officer wants to see that the desk man does not get the same working-out that the blacksmith does, for here is a point in training where many a potentially good soldier may be lost. The desk man with proper care may make just as good a soldier as the blacksmith. At times the drillmaster in his enthusiasm and in his need to make soldiers quickly may ovei'look this matter.

Here and now is the point in this little article to make the plea for universal training. From my own experience, I can see plainly that it is the only way for us to go, both from the standpoint of future armies and from the standpoint of the future well-being and development of our people, to give them a few hours drill a week. Such instruction that our future sons and daughters will learn what their bodies are for and how they should be used Let them learn what normal posture is. Let them learn that there is a normal way to walk, a thing that few of us have ever done. Let them learn that the success and the enjoyment of b'fe comes first from the development of a perfect body. Very few of us will need to woiTy about our bi'ains if we only learn of the benefits and wonderful pleasures of a perfect body, a sense of well-being that can be obtained in no other w r ay. When We see a skillfull acrobat or a graceful dancer, we admire him, and in so doing, unconsciously feel our desire to do the same or kindred things. But we do not do for our bodies what they do for theirs, or in our own way be as able as they.

WHY SOME OF US GO A. W. O. L.

-Chaplain Shroyer patient because of some secondary infection such as an inflamed joint. The second may have heart trouble and for this need his tonsils removed or work done on his nose. A third may have stomach discomfort which

proves to be secondary to a chronic appendix and may need the removal of that organ. A fourth may have been gassed, and after other things have been excluded, he may need to be sent to another climate where he can live out of doors and get strong and well. It is necessary for us to know the extent of damage to his lungs and for this purpose we make X-Ray steroscopic plates as well as a careful physical examination. We attempt to make careful studies of the flora of his sputa and hope With the help of the laboratory to do him some good by means of properly prepared vaccines. We hope to teach him how to properly take care of himself by means of exercise and proper attention to personal hygiene. A fifth may have been unfortunate enough to have developed a pneumonia enroute and be a very sick man for a time, needing the watchful care of our efficient nurses. A sixth may have a tubercular kidney and after we have assured ourselves of this focus or any other localized center of infection in his body, he will have to be referred to the care of the surgical service for a time. Many others may be convalescent from a pneumonia or influenza or fatigue conditions and for them graded exercises, amusements and other diversions are of greatest use. From time to time we find that it is necessary to cover the entire field of internal medicine and contageous diseases. Many other instances of the varied kinds of work needed for these men might be cited, but enough has been said to show that we are awake to the needs of our patients and we expect to do good work, supplemented by the Red Cross, the Y. M. C. A. and other such organizations, not forgetting to mention the so generous aid of the people of Pittsburgh and the surrounding towns.

The simple things are the things that make for our progress and true physical culture ds the hope for our future peoples. Now to make an army from such a nation would more nearly approach, the condition so fondly imagined possible by some of our prominent speakers when this war began. Each man and, yes, each woman wouM know his and her individual place, and how to fill it, and millions of lives and much time and money would be saved, if, in fact, any foe would dare to attack so sturdy a people. We would be proud of our bodies and more proud still of what the brains of such bodies would produce.

Now to come back to our newlymade soldier. The medical officer must instruct him in the care of his person, in the care of his abode and in the care of the immediate surroundings. This work is done by the Sanitary Corps under the direction of a Medical officer. In the camps and in the larger hospital the woi'k can be so divided that each man works more or less in his own specialty. In this way the best work can be done because it encourages and brings out the best there is in a man and here it seems to me that it would be wise to leave the special field to an article in the future by the representatives of each.

Now that the armistice is signed and we are getting men back, the most intei'esting time, from a medical standpoint, has arrived, for we have work a-plenty-men to help and to teach how they must care for themselves in the future to remaiis well and to get the most out of their lives. Here again the field will be better covered in an article by each one of our specialists. .

It is our aim to go over each one of these men in detail and by means of referring them to each of the different branches, have all of the special examinations that seem necessary made by the other men and then bring this material together and decide upon the needed treatment. We may need to have a great deal of work done on the teeth of the first

|ininiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiijii!iiiiiiiiniiiii iniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii

|

## BELL PHONES

750 COURT 751 COURT

P. &amp;A. PHONE 580 MAIN

## BORCHRfiS WINSOR &amp;

Wholesale Dealers &amp; Jobbers

## BUTTER EGGS&amp; CHEESE utterine

|

|

|

{

I

403 Liberty St. Pittsburgh, Pa.

|

iliiHiniiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii

|

## WELFARE ACTIVITIES

RED CROSS

The Red Cross activities at Parkview Hospital remind me of a wagon wheel and axle, the axle representing the governing power of the army, under which all organizations represented below bow with recognition of superiority.

The hub 'present arms/' as the medical staff with a fine presentation of men doing what every broad and serious minded man would do, sacrificing home and money to do their duty.

Now we have the spokes of the wheel which fit into the hub, each spoke representing the different organizations as follows. The Y. M. C. A. which has done and is doing a fine work and as you have been told in the last issue about their splendid hut, which will be used and enjoyed by the hospital staff and men in general, I need not go into the details again.

The K. of C. hut which will be a large building and used for the same noble purpose as the Y. M. C. A., uplifting the morale of all the men.

The Y. W. C. A. will have a hostess and canteen house in the near future which will be a benefit to all the men.

The other spokes in the wheel, which we could not do without, representing the different societies and clubs composed of people in the thriving and busy city of Pittsburgh, with broad minds, big hearts and congeniality.

The rim represents the Red Cross Convalescent house, to be used as a meeting place for the relatives and patients. It will contain the main library, entertainment hall with a large stage, making it possible to give a regular show. This building will be finished and ready for occupancy very soon. It will be our aim to make this house a regular place for 'regular fellows,' and our main object to have the boys go away from Parkview with memories of many pleasant and happy hours.

The nurses' recreation hut with its conveniences will enable the tired and willing girls who have done so much for the boys to relax and enjoy a few hours of contentment and rest.

_ Now we come to the steel rim which binds and holds together all organizations, the army and people of our country, Patriotism, love of our country, our fellow men, and the ever prevailing love of God who rules over all.

T. J. Pentland, Jr., A. R. C. Field Director.

## JEWISH WELFARE BOARD

On Wednesday evening, February 26, the Jewish Welfare Board will have charge of the program. There will be three boxing bouts of three rounds each. Among the boxers that evening will be Harry Greb and Harry 'Chick' Rodgers. These drawing cards need no introduction as they are both well-known to all fans and the general public. Greb is one of the most clever and highest paid boxers in the game. The Jewish Welfare Board had a hard time in securing him, but they landed him at last, go be sure to be around on Wednesday evening and bring your bunkie with you.

Chaplain Shroyer Handing 'Tony' His Naturalization Papers

K. OF C.

Constructing material for the K. of C. Hut has already been received and work for its erection will soon begin.

The regular Sunday Catholic services will be held Sunday morning at 8:00 A. M. One of the priests of the Redemptionist Church of Pittsburgh will celebrate the mass.

Through the kindness of Miss Irene Hawkins about fifty of our men were entertained at a dance and party in the K. of C. Hall, Sharpsburg. Good music, refreshments and a host of charming girls made the affair very enjoyable. Secretary Tormey promises affairs of a like nature in the near future.

## Y. M. C. A.

l

Dr. Sanford will deliver his last address as Y. M. C. A. secretary on Sunday evening, February 23, at 7:30 P. M. Mrs. Jerome E. Capen will be the soloist.

.

## THE WEEKLY CALENDAR.

Sunday, Feb. 23-Religious Services 8:00 A. M., Mass. 10:30 A. M., Undenominational Services. Lieut. Shroyer, 'The God Not Far Away.' 7:30 &gt;. Mr., Y. M. C. A.

•

Monday, Feb. 24.-Mrs. Dußarry Concert.

,

Wednesday, Fern. 26--Jewish Welfare Board Boxing Bouts. i

Tuesday, Fe.b 25.-Emergency Aide Program.

Thursday, Feb. 27-Knights of Malta Friday, Feb. 28 -Knights of Columbus, Saturday, March I-Moving Pictures

William Hart in 'Border Wireless.' Fatty Arbuckle in 'The Cook,' Films donated by Paramount and Artcraft Co., M. R. Burburn, Mgr. Courtesy of Mr. Dawson, Pittsburgh Leader. &gt; &gt; j ' 1

## FAVORITE SPORTS

Lieut. Murry-Dancing.

Nurse Whitehead -Teasing.

:

Lieut. Marcus-Automobiling.

Nurse Hoffman-Asking for something that isn't on the table.

Miss Patton -Making rounds at 10:30 P. M. ,

;

Passion, enthusiasm -it is not less we want, but more. The ennabling difference between one man and another is precisely in this-that one feels more than another.-Ruskin.

.

'

'Where was the lawyer found after the automobile collision?' 'He was Iving on the side of the road.' 'Well, it was natural for him to be lying somewhere.' -San Francisco Chronicle.

## COLOGERO U\\ heal American

Tony (whose Sunday name is Cologero Saia) has Just had a wonderful experience. The doctors and nurses had been working overtime to fix him up and they couldn't seem to satisfy him. He finally became frantic and blurted out something about wanting to be 'American citizen.' Then the situation dawned. Tony had ' gone overseas, like many a man of foreign birth in America to fight for Uncle Sam before he could even claim him for an uncle. And he came back proudly wearing a wound stripe as evidence of his devotion to the greatest republic on earth. Of course he earned his right to American citizenship, and the naturalization officer considered it a great honor to hand him the valuable certificate. All that some Americans do to earn their rights is to be born here. But Tony and many like him took their place in the ranks and fought our battles for us. The least gratitude we can show is to extend to them the privileges of citizenship. There can be no doubt about Tony's good intentions, The reporter found him in bed one morning worrying over the fact that he was not able to go down to the class room as usual to take his daily lesson in reading and writing. By his bed sat a fellow countryman who had not yet enrolled in the classes, being in doubt whether a man of his age could learn to read and write. He was putting up a big argument along the 'bending the twig' line, and Tony was coming back in good form with the suggestion that the woodworker can do wonderful things with the grownup tree.

Tony then gave a little bit of his own history. At eight years of age he went into the mines in Italy and worked until he was 23 years old. Then he came to America and worked at the same trade near Scranton until he entered the sendee of Uncle Sam. Now he feels that he has missed something-he has been denied the little bit of education that even a laboring man ought to have. And he is determined to make up the loss if it can possibly be done. Uncle Sam will welcome such as these into his family and give them every opportunity to learn the things that make for good citizenship, for they are the stuff of which real Americans are made.

To know that which before us lies in daily life is the prime wisdom.Milton.

)

'

'

,

Corporal Woods has been wandering around with a very woebegone countenance and the cause has just been discovered. A certain young lady, very high in his estimation, invited him to 'not come back.' Cheer up, Woodsy, old top, maybe she loves you after all.

## F. L. Norton

941 Liberty Ave.

Safes Vault Doors Safe

Deposit Boxes

Expert Repair Work

THE

I

## FIRST 1NATIONAL 1 1 BANK

1

1

I

at PITTSBURGH

1

j is a strong, popular and con| venient Bank, with a welcome | | for all customers, whether | | their business be large or of | | moderate proportions.

Capital 54,000,000.00

Surplus $1,250,000.00

Deposits $26,155,720.09

Resources $41,143,568.70

LAWRENCE E. SANDS President

FRANK E. BROOKS Vice President

CLYDE C. TAYLOR Cashier

OSCAR WILSON Assistant Cashier

|

|

|

|

S. B. THOMPSON, JR. Assistant Cashier

|

|

|

|

| FIFTH AVE. and WOOD ST.,| Pittsburgh. | 'Convenient For You.'

j

filiiliHiiWltiiiiiiHiniiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuitiimiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiKiiiiiKiif

## NURSES' NOTES

Q. -Has any one seen Miss Patton ? A.-Yes, the night nurses.

The hospital is saving money on shoe leather for messenger boys since the phones were installed in the nurses' home.

Q. -Who is Miss Lescher's favorite saint?

A.-Paul.

Sergeant Whitaker to Miss Thompson-ls that a plate of chicken?

Miss Thompson-l guess you don't know chicken when you see it.

Sergeant Whitaker-Ha! Maybe you think I don't.

Arthur D.-The nurses miss you at mess time.

Miss Patton (peering in at the door) -Is Miss Hoffman in?

Girls, don't break the rules or Lieut. Popkin will restrict you and take your clothes.

Wanted in Officers Ward-One 'Young' nurse.

The nurses are anxiously waiting for the appearance of the screen in the mess hall-which was suggested by Lieut. Munson -

Oh; those wild, wild, women!

Lost -ln nurses quarters on the hill-2s milk bottles.

Finder please return same to Lieut. Mitchell.

Discovered-Lieutenant Murray is spending many evenings a week on waxed floors in East Liberty.

Q. -Did you hear of the big event March Ist?

A.-Removal of mustaches.

Capt. Hunter has a deformity of the feet -

They are turning toward the orthopaedic ward.

Distressed Damsel-(Oh, Lieiut. catch that man! He wanted to kiss me!

Lieut.-That's all right, Grace, There'll be another along in a minute!

Wanted-A wife to sew on buttons and hat cords-Lieut. Maloney.

Lieut. Meyers once favorite expression 'C class pass for yours.'

Lieuts. Brumbaugh, Marcus, Bennet-Now stand still until mamma washes your upper lip.

Some one remarked that 'Mess' : reminded them of Hebrews, 13th, Chap., Bth verse.

Look it up.

Don't be like Miss Hoffman; she did not know where to find Hebrews It was rumored that Lietit. Barrett is soon to be crowned; as the boys are calling him 'Prince.'

Miss Kifer-Oh, how sleepy I am tonight, being to Pittsburgh all day: and oh, how my face burns.

Wonder what's the trouble; we don't see the Camp Fire Girls out with the Boy Scouts any more?

THREE MONTHS RESTRICTION

## SERVICE WITH THE

## AMERICAN RED CROSS

The American Red Cross has urgent need of able executive secretaries in its service at the various military and naval stations. For that purpose it has issued the following bulletin and desires that it be given the widest publicity among persons about to be discharged:

'THE AMERICAN RED CROSS needs able, intelligent active men for its service in the Camps, in the Hospitals and on the Transports. Red Cross is prepared to pay reasonable compensation for such service. Any Officer discharged from the service of the United States who might desire service with the Red Cross is asked to get in touch with the Field Director of the Red Cross at the camp or with the Department of Military Relief at Washington or the nearest Red Cross Division Headquarters.'

Persons about to be discharged from the service have here another oppor- tunity open to them to serve in the emergency, especially during the period of reconstruction, in a capacity remunerative both to themselves and their country.

St--

*■

5

mm*

90

## i Cn ! Di THE HORNE CO.

Expects You at its 70th Anniversary Sale now in progress

'